
                                                     Emerging Technologies
Overview of Emerging Technologies
In the information technology domain, the term emerging technology has different meanings for different people.
Businessdictionary.com defines emerging technologies as “new technologies that are currently developing or will be developed
over the next five to ten years, and which will substantially alter the business and social environment.” This definition considers
new technologies as emerging technologies, which is not entirely accurate.
Some people consider emerging technologies as innovations of existing technologies, which are used creatively for modernity.
For example, artificial intelligence was first developed in the 1950s. However, up to date, this is still considered an emerging
technology because this development is still progressing and is embedded in various research areas.
Technology can also be labeled as an emerging technology through its characteristics. Table 1 shows the descriptions of
emerging technology’s five (5) main characteristics and how technologies emerge, according to Rotolo, Hicks, and Martin (2015).
 CHARACTERISTICS                                                       DESCRIPTION
 Radical novelty       Emerging technology may take the form of progressing technology. Novelty or newness can also be
                       generated by putting existing technology to a new use. For example, the applications of artificial
                       intelligence are applied to different uses to achieve different results.
                       Emerging technologies are radically novel. For example, they fulfill a given function by using a different
                       basic principle as compared to what the previous technology used to achieve a similar purpose.

 Relatively fast       Emerging technologies show relatively fast growth rates compared to non-emerging technologies.
 growth                Growth may be observed across a number of dimensions, such as the number of actors involved, public
                       and private funding, knowledge outputs produced, prototypes, products, and services.
                       For example, users of artificial intelligence are growing. (e.g., various companies, universities, and
                       individuals)

 Coherence             Emerging technology is a convergence of previously separated research streams and technologies that
                       have already moved beyond the purely conceptual stage. Coherence refers to the internal
                       characteristics of a group being united and having logical interconnection. Coherence and its
                       persistence over time distinguish technologies that have acquired a certain identity and momentum
                       from those still in a state of flux and, therefore, not yet emerging.
                       For example, cloud, artificial intelligence, data analytics, and robotics are grouped to achieve different
                       use.

 Prominent impact      Emerging technology provides benefits for a wide range of sectors, transforms an industry, and exerts
                       much enhanced economic influence. It applies a noticeable impact with narrow scope, as well as wide-
                       ranging impact across domains and potentially the entire socio-economic system by changing the
                       composition of actors, institutions, patterns of interactions among those, and the associated knowledge
                       production processes.
                       For example, artificial intelligence provides a prominent impact and enormous changes in different
                       sectors, such as businesses, academe, healthcare, and individuals around the world.

 Uncertainty and       The prominent impact of emerging technologies lies somewhere in the future. Thus, uncertainty
 ambiguity             features in the emergence process. On the other hand, ambiguity arises because proposed applications
                       are still malleable. Even the knowledge of the emergence’s possible outcomes is incomplete.
                       Uncertainty and ambiguity are key starting concepts for a wide variety of science and technology studies
                       that focus on the role of the expectations in technological emergence. Emerging technologies are also
                       characterized by uncertainty in their possible outcomes and uses, which may be unintended and
                       undesirable, and by ambiguity in the meaning that different social groups associate with the given
                       technology.
                       For example, there are various applications or uses of artificial intelligence that some people can
                       predict, but these applications may or may not be successfully developed.
                                            Table 1. Characteristics of an emerging technology
                                           Source: What is an Emerging Technology?, 2015, p. 4


In conclusion, these characteristics define emerging technology as a radically novel and relatively fast-growing technology
through a certain degree of coherence persisting over time. These also have the potential to exert a considerable impact on the
socio-economic domain(s), which is observed in terms of actors and institutions, as well as their patterns of interactions, along
with the associated knowledge production processes. Its most prominent impact, however, lies in the future, and so the
emergence phase is still somewhat uncertain and ambiguous (Rotolo, Hicks, & Martin, 2015, p. 4).
Emerging Technology Areas

According to the World Economic Forum, the following areas of emerging technologies have the potential of altering deep-
rooted practices of industries in the future:

 • Augmented Reality (AR) – AR is the technology that overlays computer-generated display, sound, text, and effects on a
   user’s view of the real world. It combines real and computer-based scenes and images to deliver a unified but enhanced view
   of the world. There are various applications of AR, such as an in-car display with guides to help the driver drive and reverse
   park safely, games such as Pokémon GO, and applications that help shoppers view how a piece of furniture will look in their
   living room before buying it.
   AR is also set to leap forward in terms of sophistication and everyday use. It is having a great impact on the industry, where
   it is an integral component of the Fourth Industrial Revolution.

 • Artificial Intelligence (AI) – AI is the simulation of human intelligence processes by machines. These processes include
   learning, reasoning, and self-correction.
      o Machine learning – This is the application of AI that provides a machine with the ability to learn from experience like
          humans. Machine learning is used in various applications such as healthcare, financial and marketing services, and
          transportation. In healthcare, for example, machine learning algorithms will be applied to identify and develop new
          medicines at a rapid pace.
 
 • Quantum Computers – Computers that use quantum mechanics to perform calculations can solve some problems far more
   efficiently than a conventional computer. Quantum computers use qubit as their basic unit of computation. Qubit is
   analogous to the standard bit (0 or 1), but it is in a quantum superposition between two (2) computational quantum states.
   It can be a 0 and a 1 at the same time. So far, the largest quantum computers that laboratories have demonstrated are from
   IBM, Google, Rigetti Computing, and IonQ.
   Researchers and a growing number of academics are developing programs and quantum computing software. Once refined,
   powerful quantum computers in the future could simulate nature itself, such as atoms, molecules, and could help in designing
   materials.

The Fourth Industrial Revolution
The technical advances change the way of production technology. The stages of production technology are called the “industrial
revolution.” The industrial revolution is the systematic transformation of manufacturing through the integration of physical and
digital systems to improve quality, lower costs, and increase efficiency. Because of this, production technologies fundamentally
changed the working conditions and lifestyles of people. There are four (4) stages of the industrial revolution:
• First Industrial Revolution, or Industry 1.0, began in the 18th century. This is the introduction of mechanical production using
  hydroelectric and steam-powered equipment.
• Second Industrial Revolution, or Industry 2.0, began in the 19th century. New technological systems that use electricity were
  introduced during this revolution, which allowed for even greater production and more sophisticated machines.
• Third Industrial Revolution, or Industry 3.0, began with the first computer era. This industrial revolution evolved the use of
  electronics and information technology (IT) to automate a production process further. Manufacturing and automation
  advanced considerably because of Internet access, connectivity, and renewable energy.
• Fourth Industrial Revolution, or Industry 4.0, is the current and developing environment. The disruptive and cutting-edge
  technologies, such as the Internet of Things (IoT), robotics, virtual reality (VR), AR, and AI, are changing the way we live and
  work. Industry 4.0 will lead to changes in traditional production relationships among suppliers, producers, customers, as well
  as between humans and machines.


Some of the technologies from the building blocks of Industry 4.0 are the following:
• Big Data Analytics – This is the process of collecting, organizing, and analyzing large sets of data from different resources to
  discover patterns and other useful information. This is used to support real-time decision-making in production and customer
  management systems. Using cutting-edge technologies, it’s possible to analyze large data and immediately get answers from
  them.
• Internet of Things (IoT) – IoT is a computing concept that describes the idea of everyday physical objects being connected to
  the Internet and being able to communicate and interact with other devices. This may include sensor and wireless
  technologies. IoT allows field devices to interact with one another and with more centralized controllers. It will also
  decentralize analytics and decision-making, thereby enabling real-time responses and results.
• Cloud Computing – This is the general term for anything that involves delivering hosted services over the Internet. The
  performance of cloud technologies will improve, which results in achieving reaction times of several milliseconds. Machine
  data and functionality will increasingly be deployed to the cloud, thus enabling more data-driven services in production
  systems.
• Augmented Reality (AR) – AR-based systems support a variety of services, such as selecting parts in a warehouse and sending
  repair instructions over mobile devices. These systems are currently in their infancy, but in the future, companies will make
  much broader use of AR to provide workers with real-time information to improve decision-making and work procedures.




REFERENCES:
Artificial Intelligence (n.d.). In TechTarget. Retrieved from https://searchenterpriseai.techtarget.com/definition/AI-Artificial-
          Intelligence
Augmented Reality (n.d.). In Techopedia. Retrieved from https://www.techopedia.com/definition/4776/augmented-reality-ar
Big Data Analytics (n.d.). In Webopedia. Retrieved from https://www.webopedia.com/TERM/B/big_data_analytics.html
Boston             Consulting         Group          (n.d.).      Rediscovering         growth.        Retrieved           from
          https://www.bcg.com/capabilities/operations/embracing-industry-4.0-rediscovering-growth.aspx
Cann, O. (2018). These are the top 10 emerging technologies of 2018 [Web log post]. Retrieved from
          https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2018/09/top-10-emerging-technologies-of-2018/
Cloud Computing (n.d.). In Techtarget. Retrieved from https://searchcloudcomputing.techtarget.com/definition/cloud-
          computing
Desoutter Industrial Tools (n.d.). Industrial revolution – From industry 1.0 to 4.0 In Retrieved from
          https://www.desouttertools.com/industry-4-0/news/503/industrial-revolution-from-industry-1-0-to-industry-4-0
Emerging Technologies (n.d.). In BusinessDictionary. Retrieved from: http://www.businessdictionary.com/definition/emerging-
          technologies.html
Halaweh, M. (2013). Emerging technology: What is it?. Journal of technology management & innovation, 8, 1-8. doi:
          10.4067/S0718-27242013000400010
Internet of Things (IoT) (n.d.). In Techopedia. Retrieved from https://www.techopedia.com/definition/28247/internet-of-
          things-iot
Rotolo, D., Hicks, D., & Martin, B. (2015). What is an emerging technology?. SPRU Working Paper Series, 44, 1-34. doi:
          10.6084/M9.FIGSHARE.1335986


